Data source:
Both sets of raw data set were obtained from OPHI: https://ophi.org.uk/global-mpi/2023
The data sets were "Data Table 1: National results 2023" and "Data Table 6: Trends over Time 2023" respectively.

Both cleaned and raw data set can be found in the folder "data". The raw data is in the .xlsx format and the cleaned data is in .csv format.

The data for mpi_time was scrapped from one of the sheet in the raw data and only necessary data was extracted. The full data set can be found in "MPI Data Over Time.xlsx" 

Variables description for mpi_time:

Country: The list of the countries with MPI data collected. 

World.Region: The different regions that the countries belong to.

Survey.Type: The types of survey used to collect the MPI data in the first time point.

t0: The first timepoint that the MPI data was collected.

Survey.Type.1L The types of survey used to collect the MPI data in the second time point.

t1: The second timepoint that the MPI data was collected.

t0.MPI: The value of MPI at the first time point, ranges from 0 to 1.

t1.MPI: The value of MPI at the second time point, ranges from 0 to 1. 

Change.in.MPI: The changes in MPI between t0 and t1 (t1.MPI - t0.MPI).

There were some data that I have removed from the mpi_data data frame as they do not help with the visualisation. The description for the variables can be found in the raw data file (MPI Data 2023.xlsx).

Variables description for world_data:

name_long: The full name of all the countries.

World.Region:The different regions that the countries belong to.

Year: The most recent year that the survey was conducted to calculate value of MPI. 

MPI: The value of MPI which ranges from 0 to 1. 

Population.2021: The population size of the countries in 2021. They are in thousands. 

geometry: The latitude and longitude of the country. This is the default data present in the data frame.

The data frame "world_map" was derived from the rnaturalearth package. This data set was used to create the world map visualisation.










